README.md, before:

# toDoApp-fastAPI

This API is written with FastAPI and Python for a ToDo app.

## Prerequisites

### Install the virtual environment

If it is the first time you start the application on your machine, remember to set up a virtual machine:
```
python3.exe -m venv venv
```

Then activate with the following for Windows:
```
venv\Scripts\activate
```
or Linux:
```
source venv/scripts/activate
```

Then install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Environment variables

Environment variables included in the `.env` file will be used inside the application. This file is excluded from source control, so you want to create it in the root folder (at the same level as `main.py`), with the same structure as `default.env`.

You can also locally use a `local.env` file, as an alternative to `.env`. It is also excluded from git.

The list of necessary environment variables is the following:
* **DEBUG**: whether FastAPI should start in debug mode or not
  * default: _false_
* **LOG_LEVEL**: from which level log will be printed out
  * default: _INFO_
  * possible values: _NOTSET_, _DEBUG_, _INFO_, _WARNING_, _ERROR_, _CRITICAL_
* **MONGO_URL** (_mandatory_): the path of the Mongo database to connect with, containing host and port;
## How to run

You can start the application with the following:
```
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

It will be exposed at `http://localhost:8000``

# How to test

Every test should be included in the `tests`` folder. We use `Pytest` to run tests. Simply launch
```
pytest
```

to let the magic happen.

Commit message:

chore: upgraded references to expect usage of python v3.10

README.md, after:

# toDoApp-fastAPI

This API is written with FastAPI and Python for a ToDo app.

## Prerequisites

Before to start, please note this app is built with Python 3.10 in mind. Please mind that using previous version might create issues on your development experience.

### Install the virtual environment

If it is the first time you start the application on your machine, remember to set up a virtual machine:
```
python3.exe -m venv venv
```

Then activate with the following for Windows:
```
venv\Scripts\activate
```
or Linux:
```
source venv/scripts/activate
```

Then install dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Environment variables

Environment variables included in the `.env` file will be used inside the application. This file is excluded from source control, so you want to create it in the root folder (at the same level as `main.py`), with the same structure as `default.env`.

You can also locally use a `local.env` file, as an alternative to `.env`. It is also excluded from git.

The list of necessary environment variables is the following:
* **DEBUG**: whether FastAPI should start in debug mode or not
  * default: _false_
* **LOG_LEVEL**: from which level log will be printed out
  * default: _INFO_
  * possible values: _NOTSET_, _DEBUG_, _INFO_, _WARNING_, _ERROR_, _CRITICAL_
* **MONGO_URL** (_mandatory_): the path of the Mongo database to connect with, containing host and port;

## How to run

You can start the application with the following:
```
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

It will be exposed at `http://localhost:8000``

# How to test

Every test should be included in the `tests` folder. We use `Pytest` to run tests. Simply launch
```
pytest
```

to let the magic happen.
